# SDN Usecases

### A. OpenFlow specific usecases
Seggrigating the data & control plane. _Control plane will  moved to SDN controller & Data plane to open hardware._ Based on the defined flows, the data plane will work.

The same openflow hardware (switch) can act as multiple device roles such as router, hubs, switches, firewall etc. Some recent networked devices comes with SDN functionality or configurability support in control plane. 

**Traditional appliances**
* Switching
* Router
* VLAN (MAC based, Port based)
* Firewall (Stateful, Stateless)
* Redirection (Proxy apps such as ARP, DNS, Web etc)
* Load Balancer
* Network Monitoring/ IPS/ IDS

### B. Automated Service Delivery
This includes on-demand services like:

**1. Bandwidth Scheduling**
As the central function unit of a generalized control plane for provisioning dedicated channels in High Performance Networks, the bandwidth scheduler computes appropriate network paths and allocates link bandwidths to meet specific user requests based on network topology and bandwidth availability. [1]

**2. Dynamic VPN**
Dynamic VPN routing allows customers to connect their production Appian Cloud instances to their resources in a secure and reliable manner. With this feature, traffic through IPSec VPN tunnels can be rerouted automatically to a secondary path as soon as a node or a connection failure is detected. Dynamic VPNs use Border Gateway Protocol (BGP) to exchange routing information and reachability between Application/ Content server and customer networks. [2]



[1] https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1084804516303022
[2] https://docs.appian.com/suite/help/20.2/Dynamic_VPN_Routing.html
[3]
[4]
[5]
[6]
[7]
[8]
[9]
