# Address Resolution (NDP, ARP)
This article ia a brief introduction of *Neighbour Discovery Protocol(NDP)*, more specifically *Addredd Resolution Protocol(ARP)* & a simple Demo of ARP using **mininet**.

## 1. Neighbour Discovery Protocol (NDP)

IPv6 Neighbor Discovery (ND) is a set of messages and processes defined in [RFC 4861](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4861) that determine relationships between neighboring nodes. ND replaces Address Resolution Protocol (ARP), Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) router discovery, and the ICMP Redirect message used in IPv4. Neighbor Discovery controls the following major activities on the IPv6 local link: [1]

* **Router discovery –** Aids hosts in locating routers on the local link.

* **Address autoconfiguration –** Enables a node to automatically configure IPv6 addresses for its interfaces.

* **Prefix discovery –** Enables nodes to discover the known subnet prefixes that have been allocated to a link. Nodes use prefixes to distinguish destinations that are on the local link from those destinations that are only reachable through a router.

* **Address resolution –** Helps nodes to determine the link-local address of a neighbor, given only the destinations's IP address.

* **Next-hop determination –** Uses an algorithm to determine the IP address of a packet recipient one hop that is beyond the local link. The next-hop can be a router or the destination node.

* **Neighbor unreachability detection –** Aids nodes to determine if a neighbor is no longer reachable. For both routers and hosts, address resolution can be repeated.

* **Duplicate address detection –** Enables a node to determine if an address that the node wants to use is not already in use.

* **Redirection –** Enables a router to inform a host of a better first-hop node to use to reach a particular destination.










### _References_

```
[1] https://docs.oracle.com/cd/E23823_01/html/816-4554/chapter1-40.html
[2] 
[3] 
[4] 
[5] 
[6] 
[7] 
[8] 
[9] 
[10] 
[11] 
[12] 
[13] 
[14] 
[15] 
[16] 
```
