# Mininet Topologies

Mininet is a network emulator which creates a network of virtual hosts, switches, controllers, and links. Mininet hosts run standard Linux network software, and its switches support OpenFlow for highly flexible custom routing and Software-Defined Networking[1]. In this demonstration, we will check mininet shell, various mininet commands & understand different mininet topologies.

SDN testbed setup [article](https://github.com/biplabro/SDN-hands-on_Openflow-Mininet-RYU/blob/master/Notes%20%26%20Experiments/03.%20Testbed%20Setup.md) covers mininet installation & version check guidelines to make sure that mininet is installed & [running](https://github.com/biplabro/SDN-hands-on_Openflow-Mininet-RYU/blob/master/Notes%20%26%20Experiments/04.%20Testbed%20Functionality%20Rapid-Test.md) properly. 

## 1. Important mininet commands

SWome important mininet commands are mentioned below that we will be used in the experiments.

|Linux Terminal commands|Functions|
|-----------------------|---------|
|mn --version|Check the installed mininet version|
|mn -c|Clean up all OVS bridges, namespaces & other components created by mininet|

The proper way to exit mininet is to run the `exit` command in mininet shell but when mininet process it stopped abruptly or mn crashes, the topology components & footprints will continue to exists. It might come up with errors while starting a new mininet instance. Here the `sudo mn -c` command comes handy to manually cleanup the entire mininet framework & components running in the backgroind.
```
*******
mininet> exit
*** Stopping 1 controllers
c0 
*** Stopping 7 links
.......
*** Stopping 4 switches
s1 s2 s3 s4 
*** Stopping 4 hosts
h1 h2 h3 h4 
*** Done
completed in 5.751 seconds
ubuntu@ubuntu18-04:~$ 
```

These commands are investigated when network topologies are running.

|mininet shell commands|Functions|
|-----------------------|---------|
|help|Describe available CLI commands|
|net|List network connections|
|dump|Dump node info|
|links|Report on network links|
|exit|Exit mininet shell|

## 2. Mininet topologies

Mininet comes with various topologies built-in. Here **Single, Linear & Tree topology** will be investigated further. First we need to run the ryu controller and do the tests accordingly.

* Starting the SDN controller: `ryu-manager ryu.app.simple_switch_13`

### 2.1 Single topology

A single topology consists of a **single switch** with **multiple hosts** connected to it. In this example a single switch with 4 hosts is created[2].




### _References_

```
[1] http://mininet.org/overview/
[2] http://pakiti.com/sdn-101-using-mininet-and-sdn-controllers/
[3] 
[4] 
[5] 
[6] 
[7] 
[8] 
[9] 
[10] 
[11] 
[12] 
```




