# Mininet: Writing Custom Topologies

## 1. Mininet Properties

In order to develop custom topologies, we need to take some properties of mininet in consideration beforehand. They are listed below. All the resources on Mininet API is taken from the official github documentation page[1]. 

**Features:**

* Custom topologies: A single switch, larger Internet-like topologies, the Stanford backbone, a data center, or anything else

* Running real programs: anything that runs on Linux is available for you to run, from web servers to TCP window monitoring tools to Wireshark.

* Customizing packet forwarding: Mininet's switches are programmable using the OpenFlow protocol. Custom Software-Defined Network designs that run in Mininet can easily be transferred to hardware OpenFlow switches for line-rate packet forwarding.

* Share and replicate results: anyone with a computer can run your code once you've packaged it up.

* Ease of use: you can create and run Mininet experiments by writing simple (or complex if necessary) Python scripts.

**Limitations:**

* Running on a single system is convenient, but it imposes resource limits: if your server has 3 GHz of CPU and can switch about 10 Gbps of simulated traffic, those resources will need to be balanced and shared among your virtual hosts and switches.

* Mininet uses a single Linux kernel for all virtual hosts; this means that you can't run software that depends on BSD, Windows, or other operating system kernels. (Although you can attach VMs to Mininet.)

* Mininet won't write your OpenFlow controller for you; if you need custom routing or switching behavior, you will need to find or develop a controller with the features you require.

* By default Mininet network is isolated from your LAN and from the internet - this is usually a good thing! However, you may use the NAT object and/or the `--nat` option to connect your Mininet network to your LAN via Network Address Translation. You can also attach a real (or virtual) hardware interface to your Mininet network (see examples/hwintf.py for details.)

* By default all Mininet hosts share the host file system and PID space; this means that you may have to be careful if you are running daemons that require configuration in /etc, and you need to be careful that you don't kill the wrong processes by mistake. (Note the bind.py example demonstrates how to have per-host private directories.)

* Unlike a simulator, Mininet doesn't have a strong notion of virtual time; this means that timing measurements will be based on real time, and that faster-than-real-time results (e.g. 100 Gbps networks) cannot easily be emulated. 

## 2. Understanding the Mininet API

Mininet's API is built at three primary levels[4]:

 * Low-level API: The low-level API consists of the base node and link classes (such as `Host`, `Switch`, and `Link` and their subclasses) which can actually be instantiated individually and used to create a network, but it is a bit unwieldy.

 * Mid-level API: The mid-level API adds the `Mininet` object which serves as a container for nodes and links. It provides a number of methods (such as `addHost()`, `addSwitch()`, and `addLink()`) for adding nodes and links to a network, as well as network configuration, startup and shutdown (notably `start()` and `stop()`.)

 * High-level API: The high-level API adds a topology template abstraction, the `Topo` class, which provides the ability to create reusable, parametrized topology templates. These templates can be passed to the `mn` command (via the `--custom` option) and used from the command line.

It is valuable to understand each of the API levels. In general when you want to control nodes and switches directly, you use the low-level API. When you want to start or stop a network, you usually use the mid-level API (notably the `Mininet` class.) 

Things become interesting when you start thinking about creating full networks. Full networks can be created using any of the API levels (as seen in the examples), but usually you will want to pick either the mid-level API (e.g. `Mininet.add*()`) or the high-level API (`Topo.add*()`) to create your networks. 

Here are examples of creating networks using each API level:

#### Low-level API: nodes and links

```python
h1 = Host( 'h1' )                                                                                                     
h2 = Host( 'h2' )                                                                                                     
s1 = OVSSwitch( 's1', inNamespace=False )                                                                             
c0 = Controller( 'c0', inNamespace=False )                                                                            
Link( h1, s1 )                                                                                                        
Link( h2, s1 )                                                                                                        
h1.setIP( '10.1/8' )                                                                                                  
h2.setIP( '10.2/8' )                                                                                                  
c0.start()                                                                                                            
s1.start( [ c0 ] )                                                                                                    
print h1.cmd( 'ping -c1', h2.IP() )                                                                                   
s1.stop()                                                                                                             
c0.stop() 
```

#### Mid-level API: Network object

```python
net = Mininet()                                                                                                       
h1 = net.addHost( 'h1' )                                                                                              
h2 = net.addHost( 'h2' )                                                                                              
s1 = net.addSwitch( 's1' )
c0 = net.addController( 'c0' )                                                                                          
net.addLink( h1, s1 )                                                                                                 
net.addLink( h2, s1 )                                                                                                 
net.start()
print h1.cmd( 'ping -c1', h2.IP() )                                                                                   
CLI( net )                                                                                                            
net.stop()  
```

#### High-level API: Topology templates

```python
class SingleSwitchTopo( Topo ):                                                                                               
    "Single Switch Topology"                                                                                                  
    def build( self, count=1 ):                                                                                      
        hosts = [ self.addHost( 'h%d' % i )                                                                                   
                  for i in range( 1, count + 1 ) ]                                                                                
        s1 = self.addSwitch( 's1' )                                                                                           
        for h in hosts:                                                                                                       
            self.addLink( h, s1 )                                                                                             

net = Mininet( topo=SingleSwitchTopo( 3 ) )                                                                               
net.start()                                                                                                               
CLI( net )                                                                                                                
net.stop()   
```

### 2.1 Mininet commands commonly used

|Commands|Usage|
|--------|-----|
|`Topo`|the base class for Mininet topologies|
|`build()`|The method to override in your topology class. Constructor parameters (`n`) will be passed through to it automatically by `Topo.__init__()`.|
|`addSwitch()`|adds a switch to a topology and returns the switch name|
|`addHost()`|adds a host to a topology and returns the host name|
|`addLink()`|adds a bidirectional link to a topology (and returns a link key, but this is not important).  Links in Mininet are bidirectional unless noted otherwise.|
|`Mininet`|main class to create and manage a network|
|`start()`|starts your network|
|`pingAll()`|tests connectivity by trying to have all nodes ping each other|
|`stop()`|stops your network|
|`net.hosts`|all the hosts in a network|
|`dumpNodeConnections()`|dumps connections to/from a set of nodes.|
|`CPULimitedHost`, `TCLink`|In addition to basic behavioral networking, Mininet provides performance limiting and isolation features, through the `CPULimitedHost` and `TCLink` classes.|

### 2.2 Host Configuration Methods

Mininet hosts provide a number of convenience methods for network
configuration:

1.  `IP()`: Return IP address of a host or specific interface.
2.  `MAC()`: Return MAC address of a host or specific interface.
3.  `setARP()`: Add a static ARP entry to a host's ARP
    cache.
4.  `setIP()`: Set the IP address for a host or specific interface.
5.  `setMAC()`: Set the MAC address for a host or specific interface

For example:

```python
    print "Host", h1.name, "has IP address", h1.IP(), "and MAC address", h1.MAC()
```

In each case, if you do not provide a specific interface (e.g. `h1-eth0`
or an interface object) the method will use the host's default
interface. The above functions are defined in mininet/node.py.

### 2.3 Naming in Mininet

In order to use Mininet effectively, it is important to understand its
naming scheme for hosts, switches and interfaces. Usually, hosts are
called `h1..hN` and switches are called `s1..sN`. We recommend that you
follow this convention or a similar one. For clarity,
interfaces belonging to a node are named beginning with the node's name,
for example `h1-eth0` is host `h1`'s default interface, and `s1-eth1` is
switch `s1`'s first data port. Host interfaces are only visible from
within the host itself, but switch data ports are visible in the "root"
namespace (you can see them by typing `ip link show` in another window
while Mininet is running.) As a result, it's easy to examine switch
interfaces but slightly trickier to examine host interfaces, since you
must tell the host to do so (typically using `host.cmd()`.)

### 2.4 CLI

Mininet includes a command-line interface (CLI) which may be invoked on
a network, and provides a variety of useful commands, as well as the
ability to display xterm windows and to run commands on individual nodes
in your network. You can invoke the CLI on a network by passing the
network object into the `CLI()` constructor:

```python
from mininet.topo import SingleSwitchTopo
from mininet.net import Mininet
from mininet.cli import CLI

net = Mininet(SingleSwitchTopo(2))
net.start()
CLI(net)
net.stop()
```


Starting up the CLI can be useful for debugging your network, as it
allows you to view the network topology (with the `net` command), test
connectivity (with the `pingall` command), and send commands to individual
hosts.

	*** Starting CLI:
	mininet> net
	c0
	s1 lo:  s1-eth1:h1-eth0 s1-eth2:h2-eth0
	h1 h1-eth0:s1-eth1
	h2 h2-eth0:s1-eth2
	mininet> pingall
	*** Ping: testing ping reachability
	h1 -> h2
	h2 -> h1
	*** Results: 0% dropped (0/2 lost)
	mininet> h1 ip link show
	746: lo: <LOOPBACK,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 16436 qdisc noqueue state UNKNOWN
		link/loopback 00:00:00:00:00:00 brd 00:00:00:00:00:00
	749: h1-eth0: <BROADCAST,MULTICAST,UP,LOWER_UP> mtu 1500 qdisc pfifo_fast state UP qlen 1000
		link/ether d6:13:2d:6f:98:95 brd ff:ff:ff:ff:ff:ff

### 2.5 Measuring Performance

These are recommended, though you’re free to use any tool you’re familiar with.

1.  Bandwidth (`bwm-ng`, `ethstats`)
2.  Latency (use `ping`)
3.  Queues (use `tc` included in `monitor.py`)
4.  TCP `CWND` statistics (`tcp_probe`, maybe we should add
    it to `monitor.py`)
5.  CPU usage (global: `top`, or per-container `cpuacct`)


### 2.6 OpenFlow Controllers

If you run the `mn` command without specifying a controller,
it will pick a default controller such as `Controller` or `OVSController`, depending on what is available.

This is equivalent to:

    $ sudo mn --controller default
    
This controller implements a simple Ethernet learning switch,
and supports up to 16 individual switches.

If you invoke the `Mininet()` constructor in your script without specifying a controller class, by default it will use the `Controller()` class to create an instance of the Stanford/OpenFlow reference controller, `controller`. Like `ovs-controller`, it turns your switches into simple learning switches, but if you have installed `controller` using Mininet's `install.sh -f` script, the patched version of `controller` should support a large number of switches (up to 4096 in theory, but you'll probably max out your computing resources much earlier.) You can also select the reference controller for `mn` by specifying `--controller ref`.

### 2.7 External OpenFlow Controllers

Custom `Controller()` subclasses are the most convenient method for automatically starting and shutting down your controller. It's easy to create `start()` and `stop()` methods so that Mininet will automatically start and stop your controller as needed.

(For more information, check out this [blog post](http://mininet.org/blog/2013/06/03/automating-controller-startup/).)

However, you may find it useful to connect Mininet to an existing controller that is *already running* somewhere else, for example somewhere on your LAN, in another VM, or on your laptop. 

The `RemoteController` class acts as a proxy for a controller which may be running anywhere on the control network, but which must be started up and shut down manually or by some other mechanism outside of Mininet's direct control.

You can use `RemoteController` from `Mininet`:

```python
from functools import partial
net = Mininet( topo=topo, controller=partial( RemoteController, ip='127.0.0.1', port=6633 ) )
```

or if you prefer:

```python
net = Mininet( topo=topo, controller=lambda name: RemoteController( name, ip='127.0.0.1' ) )
```

or even

```python
net = Mininet( topo=topo, controller=None)
net.addController( 'c0', controller=RemoteController, ip='127.0.0.1', port=6633 )
```

Note that `controller` (like `host` and `switch`) in this case is a *constructor*, not an *object* (but see below for additional info!) You can create a custom constructor in-line using `partial` or `lambda`, or you can pass in your own function (which must take the `name` parameter and return a controller object) or class (e.g. a subclass of `RemoteController`.)

You can also create multiple controllers and create a custom `Switch()` subclass which
connects to different controllers as desired:

```python

c0 = Controller( 'c0' )  # local controller
c1 = RemoteController( 'c1', ip='127.0.0.2' )  # external controller
cmap = { 's1': c0, 's2': c1, 's3': c1 }

class MultiSwitch( OVSSwitch ):
    "Custom Switch() subclass that connects to different controllers"
    def start( self, controllers ):
        return OVSSwitch.start( self, [ cmap[ self.name ] ] )
```
ntroller remote,ip=192.168.51.101
    $ sudo mn --controller remote,ip=192.168.51.101

**Abusing the API by passing in a controller object**

In Mininet 2.2.0 and above, you may choose to pass in a `Controller` *object* instead of a *constructor* (and indeed even a list of objects.) This was added because people kept doing it in spite of the API clearly specifying that a constructor was needed.

This allows you to do something like:

    net = Mininet( topo, controller=RemoteController( 'c0', ip='127.0.0.1' ) )

And get the behavior that you intended. Constructors are still permitted as well.



### _References_

```
[1] https://github.com/mininet/mininet/wiki/Introduction-to-Mininet#apilevels
[2] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oCOhwHNP7Lc
[3] https://inside-openflow.com/2016/06/29/custom-mininet-topologies-and-introducing-atom/
[4] https://github.com/mininet/mininet/wiki/Introduction-to-Mininet#understanding-the-mininet-api
[5] 
[6] 
[7] 
[8] 
[9] 
[10] 
[11] 
```
